---
layout: post
title: "SF Best -- A campaign can not fail."
date: 2014-04-20 15:44:20 +0800
categories: mental business
tags: mental business
excerpt: On Dragon Boat Festival of 2009, an accident try that promote rice dumplings while delivering by Shun Feng staff, has brought 1,000,000 RMB sales for Shun Feng. They have follow the suit in the 2010, and get 5,000,000RMB marketing success. It approves that courier has the native advantage to promote product to customer while they are deliver goods. This made Wang Wei inspired. 
description: On Dragon Boat Festival of 2009, an accident try that promote rice dumplings while delivering by Shun Feng staff, has brought 1,000,000 RMB sales for Shun Feng. They have follow the suit in the 2010, and get 5,000,000RMB marketing success. It approves that courier has the native advantage to promote product to customer while they are deliver goods. This made Wang Wei inspired. 
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On Dragon Boat Festival of 2009, an accident try that promote rice dumplings while delivering by Shun Feng staff, has brought 1,000,000 RMB sales for Shun Feng. They have follow the suit in the 2010, and get 5,000,000RMB marketing success. It approves that courier has the native advantage to promote product to customer while they are deliver goods. This made Wang Wei inspired. 

### What's SF Best?
SF Best is a e-commerce platform build by Shun Feng Express. Follow-up we will call it SF.
#### A business opportunity trigger by rice dumplings
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On Dragon Boat Festival of 2009, an accident try that promote rice dumplings while delivering by Shun Feng staff, has brought 1,000,000 RMB sales for Shun Feng. They have follow the suit in the 2010, and get 5,000,000RMB marketing success. It approves that courier has the native advantage to promote product to customer while they are deliver goods. This made Wang Wei inspired. 

In Augest 2010, SF E-Cicle become avaliable to customers. It mainly provides food, a little computer&commnunication&Consumer Electronics(3C) products. In 2012, SF has build the Senior Gift Club which aims at providing various consumer cards,health card product, arts and crafts, and seasonal goods mainly for high-end buiness professionals.
#### Best global food shopping mall
As SF e-commerce journey goes, SF has constant trial, and finally they find a entry point to build up e-commerce. So SFbest finally come out. SFbest aims at providing the best global food for mainland. It supplies fresh food, food tools, maternal and child supplies, nutrition,health care and other 9 kinds of vertical commodities. More than 70% supplies are comes from about 60 countries and regions.

### Why SFbest comes out.
SF was link the "Banana republic" in American who are persuing a single economic model, there are always pleasant day. But then Wang Wei realized that it is a huge risk to put all eggs into a single basket, Once the basket is broken, no egg can be survive. So Wang Wei began a massive restructuring of operations. In addition to promising new direction for the logistics distribution, as well as the access of electronic business. From the history of the SFbest and the forcast of future， we can find out that SF best is not another trial for cross-border e-commerce. It's a very important layout to future development of SF. It will have a great impact on the future develop strategy. Let look at the internal and external environment which SF was in.
#### More and more diffculties in Courier industry.
October 1, 2009, the new "Postal Law" was formally implemented. The identity which has troubled courier industry for many years has finally been resolved. The new law has clear the obstacles for private express delivery which sparked entire logistics industry to blowout by following the rapid rise of the e-commerce. In 2012, the market size of courier industry have grow into billion level. About 5.7 billion pacakges have been deliverd， an increse of 55%, account for 106 billion. Great market comes huge competitions.

1. Cost have been grow up.  
"Express" is a labor-intensive industry, salary, rent, travling fees are the main cost items. SF has nearly 150,000 staffs, if average salary is 5000/mon, wages rose 10% for entire group will be 75 million/year. It is very huge cost. Besides logistics center and distribution center space is very large. In recent years the rent growth almost doubled. All the cost are putting heave burden to SF to improve the profitability.
2. Competitors press harder and harder  
	In addition to being tired of macroeconomic, the competitors press harder and harder. There are about 600 million people shopping in the internet which will produce 5 billion express items. About half of the express items are produced by e-commerce. In mainland, more than 60% express items are come from "Taobao"(include tmall), in the meantime 80% of them are all consumed by five logistics company include ShenTong, YuanTong,ZhongTong,HuiTong and Yunda. SF only got about 10% express items. The shop in taobao can rarely afford the price of SF, and they can not be the regular customer of SF. In the contrast, the other five companies meet the needs of low price for the market, So they got a very high market share. It is very hard for SF to get more market share. 
	
#### Soaring e-commerce
By the end of 2013, China e-commerce market size reached 10.2 trilion, an increase of 29.9%. Which B2B e-commerce market transactions amounted to 8.2 trilion, an increase of 31.2%. The trading scale of the online retail market reached 1.8851 trilion, an increase of 42.8%.

With the gradual shopping habbit establishment of internet users, and online shopping related specficiation gradually developed, and the enviroment gradually imporved, China's online shopping market will begain to gradually matured. In next few years, online market growth will become stable. In the meantime, with the tradional large-scale enterprises to enter e-commerce, the online shopping potential of western of china and eastern tier cities will be futher development. Together with development of mobile internet, mobile online shopping is increasing easy to procure. China 's online shopping market overall will maintain relatively fast growth , according to CBIW forecasts, 2016-2017 China's online shopping market transactions will reach 4 trillion.

The inresistible attraction of huge e-commerce market, couple with the mature of "logistics, information flow and cash flow" three one closed-loop buinsee model, most e-commerce platform are building their own logistics system. SF already have the  basic criteria, there is no reason for SF not to access the huge e-commerce market.

#### Advanced information platform
In addition to advantages accumulated in logistics and warehousing, SF also has a advanced information system. SF has involoved IBM, ORACLE and other famous international companies and established 35 industry-leading level information system, which no only greatly enhance the automation of operation, but also realize the transfer of the entire shipment information monitoring, tracking and resource scheduling. Coupled with the fact that SF have already get the third-party payment license, SF have already possess the basic condition to access the e-commerce market. In other word, what Wang Wei need and only need to do is build product stream platform. It is a natural thing to involve e-commerce.
#### Logistics and branding
  The natrue of the e-commerce is still retail. The only way to touch e-commerce for most ordinary customer is logistics. The major part to judge the quality of the e-commerce is the logistics service quality. As a courier company, SF bore with these resource.
  
  Built up from 1993, SF continues improve the workflow standardization and the enhense the staff's business skills and the quality. In 20 years, SF's "fast safty" brand has already set up.
  SF brand makes its customers a sense of truse. This is a huge advantage for e-commerce to build up mutual truse.
  
### Value of SFBest 
Missing the e-commerce soaring bonuses and facing their own buiness been peeped by strong oppoent, SF was caught in the rapids undercurrent. If the "SFBest" become unfavouable, in the meantime SF lose the mid-market express business, then SF is very likly to be starved to death. SFBest is the key to what the SF will be. It is an campaign that can not fail.
#### Occupy the fresh “blue ocean”
Based on the circumstances, the domestic fresh market is a "Blue Ocean". Fresh product is a great challenge in distribution costs, cold storage, loss rate. SF bulid the cold chain logistics by virtue of their logistics and warehousing advantages which is a very good choise. On the one hand, there is almost no courier company involved in the cold chain logistics in domestic, there are no strong competitors. If SF can developed into a cold chain logistic solution provider, it will open another door to SF express business. On the other hand, the domestic fresh e-commerce has not yet formed a stable pattern. Currently, domestic fresh food produce approximately 2.5 trilion, while the volumn of transactions online only accounted for 1%. In the future, the proportion is expected to reach 10 percent. The market capacity will reach 250 billion. This is a very attractive piece of market. Once the brand is established, refrigerated home directly delivery service, will form a strong customer viscosity. In this blue ocean once the strength is established, it can become the core competitiveness of SFBest, and establish the barriers to competition to ensure the leading position in the market.
#### Cold chain logistics distribution
The SFBest CEO "Li DongQi" publicly declared that SF involved in e-commerce to operate fresh food, in fact, to prepare themselves to get involved in cold chain chain logistics. SF can maxmize the value of the SFBest platform through continous trial and error attempts, to accumulate the experience for fresh food buiness, so as SF "logistics department" to provide "fresh food logistics solution".  As the development of the fresh food e-commerce, the cool chain logistics will be a important business to SF.
#### Integrate the advantages of reverse logistics
December 31, 2009 SF airlines inaugural success which open a new door for SF internationall express buiness. But large number cargo aircraft if only use as cargo to deliver express packages, can reach its maximum value that can be achieved. SF can fully use the "reverse logistics" advantages through foreign directly sourcing, to shorten the supply chain, reduce the intermediate circulation so as to provide consumers with high-quality low-priced delicious imported foods. It is the main reason for the targeting the "Best global food shopping mall" for SFBest.
#### Integrate offline resource
SF 20 years development has accumulate huge offline resouce, hundreds of thousands couries and customers. How can use these vast resource to bring real business value? This is other duty for SFBest. Currently, it is very important to find a special entry point to e-commerce. What SFBest sold is does not matter, but SFBest must be able to combine the huge offline resource to bring the business value for SF.
### Break ceiling
In 2002, the SF has successfully transformed to directly managed. They are focus on the intermediate customers. But now SF has developed various service such as high-end service(SF TeAn), bulky cargo transportation, and economic procuct "4 day arrive". We can find out that single customer base and single express service can not satisfy the need of SF business growth. In the main high-end market, SF has encouter the growth of the ceiling. SFBest is a new chance to explore the e-commerce, to looking for the possible oppotunities.

### Impact to other e-commerce
#### Evolution of food e-commerce  
The consumer habbits are changing. With young people slowly group into the middle class of the socity, the habbit of purchasing online and trust are formed. With the popularity of hign-end agricultural product and cold chain distribution pattern gradually generally accepted, the evolution of the food e-commerce will be sparked.
#### Local food e-commerce market can be extended
As the cool chain logistics complete and improved, and market gradually mature, vast local e-commerce provider with the help of the cool chain logistics and the special advantages of product can create mass market to extending volumn growth.
#### Vertical E-commerce
As the development of the blue ocean, A lot of e-commence provider who has their own brand will be spring up.
### SFBest diffculties
#### Distribution advantage not enough to form the core competitiveness
As mentioned before, SF has accumulate a good branding, this will absolutely have a positive impact on SFBest. But these positive impact can not become the SFbest core competitiveness. Customer will not buy you product only because of you deliver good. By the contrast, Customer will accept you product is just because you have a good product. In the mean time, there must be a verty good price.
#### Competitor shield
Customers data is enterprise business core screts, SF access e-commerce will make other peers extra vigilant, because you have mastered the other's core data. Customer information, purchase history, consumer price all data are in you hands. Although involved in e-commerce can bring new business, it can also make SF lose a large business in logistics. With the continous scope expanding, more and more peers will reduce the volume of SF express business. This might be a serious negative impact. 
#### Vertical e-commerce dilemma
Because of the categroy of vertical e-commerce are limited, it is very easy to imitate. And the flow data is expensive. The Vertical e-commerce is vulnerable to platform-level crowding into distinction. SFBest as a vertical e-commerce. It a hard way for SFBest.
### Opinion
#### Keep reverse logistics
As SF have native logistics advantages, SFBest keep use the "best global food shopping mall" to accumulate the branding. Once the branding is established, will form a strong customer viscosity.
#### keep enhance the cool chain logistics
In the virtue of native logistics advantage, keep enhance the construction of the cool chain logistics. In addition to promote the process of SFBest e-commerce developing also make the SF self become a huge logistics department. SF can provide the a series of logistics solution, which will enhance the leading position in the courier industry.
### Summary
SFBest is a key point to the development of SF. With the SFBest explorement, SF need find the entry point to involved to e-commerce. Currently, SFBest aimed at the best global food and fresh food. In this blue ocean, SFBest still have a long way to go.  